Guiding Case No. 217 of the Supreme People's Procuratorate: People v. Zeng [REDACTED] et al. (investigation supervision case of correcting the omission of a co-suspect of intentional injury) (Guiding Case No. 217 of the Supreme People's Procuratorate) [Keywords] investigation supervision at second instance, correct the omission of a co-suspect, disposition in a separate case, Explanations [Key Points] When handling a criminal case, a people's procuratorate shall perform its duty to supervise investigation throughout the criminal proceedings, including investigation, approval for arrest, prosecution, and trial at first instance and second instance. The people's procuratorate shall strengthen the examination and supervision of the circumstances under which the public security organ applies "disposition in a separate case," and make disposition based on these circumstances. The people's procuratorate shall promptly transfer any discovered clues about a fugitive criminal suspect subject to "disposition in a separate case," and urge the public security organ to capture the suspect and ascertain the facts of the crime. Evidence of the facts of the case shall be collected and preserved in accordance with the law and shall not be replaced with Explanations. If the people's procuratorate discovers during examination that the public security organ has replaced statutory evidence with Explanations, it shall urge the public security organ to promptly collect and preserve the evidence again in accordance with the law. [Basic Facts] Defendant Zeng [REDACTED], male, born in October 1984, a food deliverer. Defendant Zeng [REDACTED], male, born in February 1987, a worker, the younger brother of Zeng [REDACTED]. Defendant Qin [REDACTED], nicknamed Ajun, male, born in May 1984, a worker who was released on January 5, 2011, after serving a sentence of three years and six months imprisonment for a previous conviction of the crime of gathering a crowd to fight. At noon on June 22, 2011, Zeng [REDACTED] had a conflict with his female co-worker, Tian [REDACTED], which escalated into a dispute involving Tian [REDACTED]'s friends, including Kuang [REDACTED]. Later, Zeng [REDACTED] and Zeng [REDACTED] invited Kuang [REDACTED] and others to have dinner at a restaurant around 18:00 that evening under the pretext of resolving the dispute. Meanwhile, Zeng [REDACTED] informed Ajun of his intention to retaliate against Kuang [REDACTED] and others, and asked Ajun and others to be present. That night, an argument ensued between the two sides at the restaurant. Zeng [REDACTED], Zeng [REDACTED], and Ajun used the fruit knife and iron rod carried by Ajun to stab and hit Kuang [REDACTED] and others. This resulted in Kuang [REDACTED]'s death due to heavy bleeding from a rupture in the right lung, while the other two individuals sustained minor injuries. After the incident, Zeng [REDACTED], Zeng [REDACTED], Ajun, and others fled to avoid punishment. On June 23, 2011, the Huicheng District Branch of the Public Security Bureau of Huizhou City, Guangdong Province, filed an injury case related to Kuang [REDACTED] and others for investigation and registered Zeng [REDACTED], Zeng [REDACTED], Ajun, and others as fugitives. On September 26, 2019, the Huicheng District Branch of the Public Security Bureau captured Zeng [REDACTED] and Zeng [REDACTED]. On December 11, the Huicheng District Branch concluded its investigation and transferred the case to the People's Procuratorate of Huicheng District for examination and prosecution against Zeng [REDACTED] and Zeng [REDACTED] on suspicion of intentional injury. On February 5, 2020, upon submission of the case by the People's Procuratorate of Huicheng District, the People's Procuratorate of Huizhou City initiated public prosecution against Zeng [REDACTED] and Zeng [REDACTED] for the crime of intentional injury in the Intermediate People's Court of Huizhou City. On November 24, 2020, the Intermediate People's Court of Huizhou City sentenced Zeng [REDACTED] to death with a 2-year reprieve and Zeng [REDACTED] to imprisonment of 14 years for the crime of intentional injury. Zeng [REDACTED] and Zeng [REDACTED] filed an appeal. [Performance of Duty by Procuratorial Organs] 1. Clue discovery. After receiving the case file transferred by the High People's Court of Guangdong Province, the People's Procuratorate of Guangdong Province ("Guangdong Procuratorate") examined the case materials and heard the reasons for appeal. It discovered that the case of first instance might have the following problems: First, a co-suspect was omitted. As the evidence on record proved that Ajun provided the tools for criminal purposes and directly inflicted injury, he should be held criminally liable as an accomplice in the case of intentional injury by Zeng [REDACTED] and Zeng [REDACTED]. Clues on record such as Zeng [REDACTED]'s written report could facilitate the identification of Ajun, but he was not investigated and captured during the investigation stage. The examination and prosecution, as well as the first-instance judgment, both determined Ajun as a "fugitive" subject to "disposition in a separate case." Second, evidence was in an illegal and irregular form. The public security organ used Explanations in place of statutory evidence to prove the whereabouts of the tools for criminal purposes and some facts that required to be proved by witness testimony and victim statements. The practice did not comply with the form and collection requirements for statutory evidence. 2. Correcting the omission of an accomplice. To correct the omission of an accomplice in the first instance stage, the People's Procuratorate of Guangdong Province investigated and verified the clues reported by Zeng [REDACTED]. During interrogation, Zeng [REDACTED] stated that although he did not know the real name of Ajun, he knew that Ajun's surname was Qin, Ajun's native place was Guizhou, and Ajun was released from Huizhou Prison not long ago. Zeng [REDACTED] also said that while on the run, he contacted Ajun's younger brother, Qin [REDACTED]bing, and kept his mobile phone number. It was possible to identify and capture Ajun. On April 21, 2021, the People's Procuratorate of Guangdong Province transferred the identity information of Ajun and other evidential materials discovered during the second instance stage to the public security organ and suggested that the public security organ promptly identify and capture Ajun. On May 17, the public security organ captured Qin [REDACTED] (Ajun) as identified by Zeng [REDACTED]. 3. Tracking and supervision. After being brought before authorities, Qin [REDACTED] stated that he neither provided the tools for criminal purposes nor committed any acts of harm. His statement was in obvious contradiction with the statements of Zeng [REDACTED] and others. In order to ascertain the facts of the case, the Guangdong Procuratorate continued to track the investigation and handling of the case and gave opinions on the investigation and evidence collection. First, it urged the public security organ to supplement and improve the defendants' confessions and victim statements regarding the premeditation, intensification of the conflict, the process of the fight, the source of the tools for criminal purposes, and the details of the slashing, among others. Second, it urged the public security organ to supplement and improve the objective and technical evidence in on-site examination, identification of the cause of death, and other aspects. 4. Well-regulated further evidence collection. Given that in collecting and preserving evidence, the public security organ substituted Explanations for statutory forms such as transcripts of interrogation, interviews, identification, and on-site examination, the Guangdong Procuratorate gave an opinion on well-regulated evidence collection to the public security organ. It required the organ to collect and preserve relevant evidence again in strict accordance with legal procedures. In accordance with this opinion, the public security organ further investigated and collected evidence regarding the facts of the case mentioned in more than 40 Explanations found in the first-instance case files. They collected, preserved, and converted these into statutory evidence that met the requirements of the trial in accordance with legal procedures. 5. Supervision results. After correcting the omission of the accomplice, supplementing and improving the chain of evidence, and transforming the form of evidence in accordance with the law, the Guangdong Procuratorate examined the case and concluded that the reasons for appeal in this case were unfounded. On August 24, 2021, the High People's Court of Guangdong Province conducted a second-instance trial, holding that the original judgment on People v. Zeng [REDACTED] and Zeng [REDACTED] (case of intentional injury) correctly determined the facts, applied the law, and imposed appropriate sentences. It ruled to dismiss the appeal and affirm the original judgment. On August 21, 2021, under the guidance of the Guangdong Procuratorate, the People's Procuratorate of Huizhou City initiated a public prosecution against Qin [REDACTED] for the crime of intentional injury in the Intermediate People's Court of Huizhou City. On October 29, the Intermediate People's Court of Huizhou City found defendant Qin [REDACTED] guilty of the crime of intentional injury and sentenced him to imprisonment of ten years. Qin [REDACTED] appealed. On February 25, 2022, the High People's Court of Guangdong Province dismissed the appeal and affirmed the original judgment. [Guiding Significance] 1. When handling a case of second instance, a procuratorial organ shall continue to perform its duty to supervise investigative activities. The duty of supervision of the procuratorial organ covers all steps of criminal proceedings, including investigation, approval for arrest, prosecution, and trial at first instance and second instance. When handling the second-instance case, the procuratorial organ shall also enhance its awareness of supervising investigation, perform the duty to supervise investigation, and supervise and correct illegal investigation practices in accordance with the law. When discovering any omitted crime or co-suspect, the procuratorial organ shall advise the public security organ to investigate and give an opinion on investigation and evidence collection in accordance with the law. 2. A procuratorial organ shall strengthen tracking and supervision of a case involving "disposition in a separate case" and make disposition based on the circumstances. When examining the case, the procuratorial organ shall conduct a substantive examination of the circumstances under which the public security organ applies "disposition in a separate case." The procuratorial organ shall promptly transfer any discovered clues about a fugitive criminal suspect subject to "disposition in a separate case," and urge the public security organ to capture the suspect and ascertain the facts of the crime. If the case is in the examination and prosecution stage, the procuratorial organ shall request the public security organ to conduct a supplementary investigation or supplementary transfer for prosecution. If clues are discovered during the trial at the second instance, the procuratorial organ shall advise the public security organ to conduct an investigation. If the application of "disposition in a separate case" is illegal or inappropriate, the procuratorial organ shall give a written corrective opinion to the public security organ. When discovering that the criminal suspect has been on the run for a long time or the investigation has been pending for a long time, the procuratorial organ may issue a letter demanding timely handling. 3. Explanations cannot be used as evidence in place of statutory evidence. When examining a case, a procuratorial organ shall review the contents of the Explanations issued by the public security organ. Upon discovering, during this review, that the public security organ has substituted the Explanations for statutory evidence to prove the facts of the case, the procuratorial organ shall urge the public security organ to collect and preserve evidence again in accordance with statutory procedures and forms. If the public security organ neglects its duty of investigation by issuing on the Explanations, the procuratorial organ shall provide a supervisory and corrective opinion in accordance with the law. If necessary, during the examination and handling of the case, the procuratorial organ may provide an explanation regarding the facts and materials generated after the occurrence of the case and during the litigation activities, including the legality of evidence collection, the process of case resolution, the appearance process, the apprehension process, and the restitution of stolen property. [Relevant Provisions] Articles 25 and 234 of the Criminal Law of the People's Republic of China Articles 234 and 236 of the Criminal Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China (2018 Amendment) Articles 342, 448, 449, 551, 552, and 567 of the Rules of Criminal Procedure for People's Procuratorates (2019 Revision) Articles 3, 5, 6, 10, 12, and 14 of the Guiding Opinions of the Supreme People's Procuratorate and the Ministry of Public Security on Regulating the Application of "Disposition in a Separate Case" in Criminal Cases (No. 1 [2014], SPC, effective March 6, 2014) Articles 6, 7, 8, 10, and 13 of the Guiding Opinions of the Supreme People's Procuratorate and the Ministry of Public Security on Strengthening and Regulating Supplementary Investigation (No. 6 [2020], SPP, effective March 27, 2020) Procuratorate handling the case: People's Procuratorate of Guangdong Province Handling prosecutors: Yu Xiangling and Yan Ran Case writer: Yu Xiangling